---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-01-30
published: true
labels:
  - E1
---

## Browser History 1
Going into this WOD, I thought that it would be easy because I have made simple webpages using HTML before. But I was very quickly humbled by my first attempt, and the four attempts afterwards. I felt that the most difficult part of this WOD was having to really know the tags and their functions by heart. As a student, I often find myself relying on external sources to find answers to things when I do not know how to solve them. During my first attempt specifically, I found myself itching to just Google a solution. This helped me realize that just because I completed the WOD does not mean that I genuinely absorbed the knowledge to use the material meaningfully. I decided to review the readings and lectures and actively engage with the text by jotting down notes so that I could understand "the why" behind everything I needed to do. I also watched the screencast solution multiple times and tried to break down each step to see if I could articulate it on my own. After getting over that initial hurdle of re-learning HTML, I spent the next few attempts trying to reduce my time. One thing I often forgot to do in my attempts was turning the word-wrap on in VS Code, which made it easy to miss errors and make simple mistakes.

My advice for this WOD would be to thoroughly review the screencast lectures and reading material on basic html before attempting it. One thing that really took a lot of my time was going line by line to insert the different html tags throughout the large body of text, so I would also recommend to learn your device’s keyboard shortcuts to make the process less taxing. Additionally, installing the Live Server was very helpful in allowing me to check my work and I would advise to install it.

## Browser History 2
For me, this WOD was the easiest of the three.In my earlier days, I spent a lot of time on platforms such as Tumblr and Myspace knockoffs, where users had to use HTML and CSS to edit their profile display. Because I love decorating and personalizing my things, creating stylesheets and using CSS was something that stuck with me. I DNFed on my first attempt, but reviewing CSS commands and looking them up helped refresh my memory. After 4 attempts, I was able to master and complete the WOD under RX. I enjoyed doing this WOD. 

My advice for this WOD is to read the instructions clearly. Although they are straightforward, it can be easy to miss vital requirements if you are skimming over them.

## Browser History 3
This was the one WOD where I had absolutely no idea where to begin. I had never used Inspect to edit a webpage before, so I was very confused and absolutely did not finish on time. I did not know how to make columns or change their sizes, so I had to take a lot of notes on the screencast solution and rewatch it many times to grasp what I needed to do. The most challenging part of this WOD for me was creating the navigation bar. Even after watching the screencast solution, I wasn’t exactly sure how to do it, and I felt frustrated because it would not come out like the example result. In fact, I still have not figured out how to make the navigation bar. However, I attempted it to the best of my ability and submitted what I could accomplish.

This WOD was a flop for me, so I’m not sure if any advice I give would be helpful. But one thing I would recommend is getting familiar with the Inspect tool on Chrome. While I could have just edited the webpage’s CSS in VS Code, I think it is useful to practice doing it. 
