---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Reflecting on Assignment 3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-05-12
published: true
labels:
  - E6
---

###### 1. Briefly describe your system:
My system was an e-commerce store that specializes in selling merchandise inspired by my pet cat, Leo. It offers a range of products such as clothing, accessories, and tools specifically designed for cat owners. The store has pages where customers can browse the available items, add them to a cart, and make purchases. There is also a login feature that allows you to make an account.

###### 2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
One notable shortcoming I faced was the inability to implement my individual requirement. The project proved to be challenging for me, which led to a lot of feelings of frustration and difficulty. Despite my best efforts, I was unable to meet this specific requirement. The favorites button did not work as intended, despite several days of attempting to fix it. I eventually had to cut my losses and just give up. This project stressed me out.

###### 3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
I am actually very happy in successfully getting the email functionality to work. Additionally,I am proud of the Leo-themed products I designed. I made the best use of my available resources, using a mouse and laptop instead of my preferred iPad, and I managed to create visually appealing and minimalist designs. I am most proud of the Leo Bites product. My cat is very handsome and I loved making this website.

###### 4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:
I am dissatisfied with the favorites button not functioning properly despite my persistent efforts to fix it. While users can mark items as favorites by clicking the heart button, it does not stay between all the pages. I searched far and wide for an answer and could not fix it. My inability to resolve this issue within the given time frame was frustrating and disappointing, but c'est la vie.

###### 5. How was developing this assignment different from assignment #2?
Compared to assignment #2, developing this assignment was more challenging and stressful. The individual noted that there were significantly more tasks to complete, indicating that the project was more complex overall. Despite allocating more time, they still felt rushed to finish, suggesting that the workload was demanding. The individual also mentioned that the server work was particularly tedious, implying that this assignment involved more server-related tasks compared to assignment 

###### 6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
I took several steps to address problems I encountered during the assignment. I used a lot of Google and ChatGPT, searching for online resources and assistance to find solutions or guidance. I also reached out to some of my friends who are Management Information Systems (MIS) majors and club members from ITMA, especially for my troubleshooting issues. They were very helpful and I am grateful for their help.

###### 7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
I really enjoyed working on the assignment because it was based on my cat! Even if it didn't turn out as well as I wanted to, I think I made a steep learning curve. The personal connection I have to my cat made the project more engaging and enjoyable for me in comparison to other projects. It's possible that the motivation stemming from my affection for my cat played a positive role in my progress and effort.

###### 8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
There were two aspects that did not work well for me in the assignment. First, the favorites button did not function correctly, as I mentioned previously. This caused frustration and hindered the overall functionality of my website. Secondly, highlighting the favorited items in the cart also did not work as intended. There are definitely a lot of other flaws in my user interface but I will accept the L.

###### 9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?
I learned that I really do not enjoy coding and prefer abstract ideas over technical things like programming. I originally wanted to go into something like cybersecurity. But this realization has led me to consider changing my career path to business analysis or product management, which focuses more on conceptual thinking and analysis. While still MIS, I think a less technical role would be better suited for me. Additionally, I discovered that I really like being creative and designing products. More so than building the system to display them on.

###### 10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
If I could go back, I wouldn't change much because I believe I would have faced difficulties regardless of the circumstances. However, one thing I would do differently is to ask the professor for more help and guidance. Due to my busy schedule with finals and work, I couldn't attend office hours, which could have provided valuable assistance. Seeking additional support from the professor might have helped me overcome some of the challenges I faced during the assignment.

###### 11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code, and (c) testing and debugging.
I would estimate the % of time I spent as follows:
(a) Thinking about how to do something: I would say I spent around 60% of my time thinking about how to implement various aspects of the system. I wanted to ensure I had a clear plan and strategy before diving into the coding phase. (b) Writing code: I would estimate that about 20% of my time was spent actually writing code. This involved translating my ideas and plans into actual code implementation. (c) Testing and debugging: The remaining 20% of my time was dedicated to testing and debugging. This phase involved identifying and resolving issues, ensuring the functionality of the system, and making necessary adjustments or fixes.

###### 12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed.
I worked alone on this assignment.
